Hello and welcome to the very first episode of No Such Thing as a Fish presents the World Cup of Facts
This is the only football podcast out there with no mention of football whatsoever
We are the QI elves this podcast is brought to you by visit england.com and each day
We're going to be pitting each country playing in this year's World Cup against each other to find out who the most quite interesting is and we begin with Brazil versus
You want to hear it? Yeah, okay, there's an island in Brazil. It's the size of booking and palace gardens
But it contains more than half a million venomous snakes
Wow, yeah, you want me to go there would you to read that's in favor of Brazil being a better country?
Don't go
Well, I mean doesn't it have a great flora and fauna for instance of of which this is a mostly fauna
But they can't be that as far as I know the most venomous snakes in the world of the top 10
All 10 are in Australia. So they haven't got particularly no ruthless venomous snake. Yeah, but I think
The animals in Brazil have got to be top of their list of great things, haven't they? Yeah, well parents
I have a lot of parrots right because it was the country is named after a Brazil tree
But initially Italian merchants called it the land of parrots due to the number of parrots that were there
Yeah, but yeah, so okay, so they got parrots. What else they got there? They have a piranha those little fish that bite you that everyone else calls piranha
The Kayapo people of Brazil, they have a writer passage called Hornet fighting where men climb up ladders and assault hornets nests with their bare hands
Why I think to prove that they're men. We've got to develop better ways of showing them men
Like the 18th birthday
Yeah
But Brazil also has in the Amazon you just have larger animals of every kind so they also have the giant river otter
Which gets up to about two meters long. Wow. I know isn't it fantastic?
My favorite thing is that the leading exporter of Brazil nuts in the world is Brazil Bolivia
So they lose out in Brazil nuts, but they do have the world's largest cashew tree, right?
Which is seven thousand five hundred meters squared in area. I haven't seen a picture of it
Does that I must have lots of sprouting roots? Yeah a lot of cashew nuts you get out of that a lot of bar snacks
Having said the thing about the snakes and not having particularly venomous snakes
Australia having them all they do in fact have the most venomous spider in the world
The wandering spider the Brazilian wandering spider. Yeah, yeah, so that's a point in their favor
That's the one that if it bites you it gives you priopism gives you very long
Very painful erections
Oh, yeah, well, that's the last for days as in long you mean like they lost a long time not as it's measured in minutes not inches
But although there are some people I've been nicknamed James measured a minute
There are some people I think they're in Brazil
Are they called the to parmy people or something?
The ones who put snakes down their trousers and get them to bite their penises to give them longer
Fetchions again one with minutes not inches
Ferrets aren't you and Yorkshire?
Just that just to turn it away for a second from penises
Um, I like any country that still has a sense of mystery about it
Brazil definitely Brazil seems to right. This is so interesting
It was only until 1950 that they found the highest area of Brazil up until then they just didn't know where it was
And it just so happened to be a pilot who was flying over a mountain when it was a cloudless moment
Yeah, what and then the pilot just went hey, that looks high. Yeah, that was higher than the last bit
Well, he thought well, there's nowhere higher than 10,000 feet here in just what's
And they are unidentified flying objects in Brazil are there they have a UFO a group of UFO Hunters and their center of
Eurphology is a town called vagina
Although it's probably pronounced vaginia
Speaking vaginas, there's a thing called the Lotus Flower Projects
There's a prison in Brazil where all the inmates spend their time knitting
There was a Brazilian fashion designer who was running short of knitters and she she designed some knitted goods and the prisoners for every three days
They spend knitting goods they get three they get a day knocked off their sentence
And so there's these hilarious pictures of these like super tough kind of hardcore inmates in this prison and they're just knitting away
Wow, there's also another prison in Brazil where the inmates cycle excise bikes and the excise bikes are attached
to the generators and can provide electricity for the local town and the longer you cycle for the more time you can get off your sentence
No, really, that is really good. So the fitter and stronger you are the earlier you can be released
That's not how you want to send a criminal back to the world
Okay, and now it's time for our half-time show which comes in the form of a quiz sponsored by visit england.com
We've got three questions for you and if you listen to the end of the podcast you will get the answer
So here we go James first question. Okay. My question is about a golf course that I play in in Silverdale and Lancashire
And my question is what can you find there that you can't find anywhere else in england?
Okay, Anna in 1949 what caused big Ben to slow down by five minutes. No idea
Question three Andy. What incredible service has West Country academic Dr. Robert Dunning done the county of Somerset?
Tough. Okay, so those are the three questions. Stay tuned to the end of the podcast in order to find out the answers to it
Unfortunately, no prizes whatsoever. Just a fun. Just a fun. But for now, let's return back to the match and it's Croatian
Dalmatians. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, Dalmatian coast. That's what the name after the name after the dog
Croatia used to be called Dalmatia. Gotcha. Okay. Croatia's not named off the dog. That would be a sad source for a country name
Brazil was almost named after a parrot. I was named after a tree. Yeah, another word we get from Croatia really obviously
Kravat
Kravat came over from Croatia in the 17th century from a Croatian mercenary
I think they used to call Croatians Kravats
I think the troops are filled with Kravats and Tartars, Hussars and Kossaks
Frightening army. Yeah. Well, we I think we've covered on the show before that Croatia literally means Thailand
As in land of ties. Yeah, that's a good one. Speaking of scary
Croatia was home to the first ever historical vampire as in not just a story
It was a person who people people actually thought was a vampire who actually lived he was called
Dure Grande and he lived in the 17th century and he died and then his wife thought that
He was coming back having sex with her in the night and he was bothering all of the people in his village
But a few years later they they went back to his grave and he still had a rosy complexion
So they cut his head off. Well, that's a rational response
Well in death
And it stopped. Yeah, it stopped. It worked. Oh, that's the trick then dead person goes in your trouble
Yeah, one of my favorite things about Croatia is there's a museum of broken relationships there and this
It's a museum and they keep things which when you split up with your ex if you have an object
Which reminds you of that of that time then you give it to those guys
One of the things they have there is a candy thong
Okay, and the woman who who gave that to the museum said he never bought me flowers because flowers he said were for boring people
Instead I got sausages on you parts for my bicycle
She said I didn't mind because I loved him after four years
He turned out to be as cheap and shabby as his presence
He cheated on me with a colleague from the office and dumped me via email
Was this all on the little museum
I can tell you also the world's ugliest man that comes from Croatia
Self-styled world's what he calls himself the world's and this is guy called his surname is Katzits
I don't know which is what his first name is he's from sat he's from Zagreb and he's asked people to marry him
5,000 times and they've all said no and he thinks the only the only reasonable
Reason that he might be still single is because he must be the ugliest man in the world
He said I've got to the point where I've even been asking people I'm meeting in the streets to marry me
And they always say no. It's assuming a level of superficiality among women that I object to
Because he's so ugly maybe he's an asshole. Yeah, or maybe he's a creepy guy who asks people to marry him on the street
Yeah, they've also got the world's ugliest goat
What? It's got mocto goat
It was born with eight legs
Wow looks like a furry octopus
Wow, yeah survived as well. It's five for a long time. That's incredible
It also has the world's smallest town. That's excitingly population of 17
Croatia does. Yeah, what town is that?
It's called hum which is nice because you can imagine they're being a very low hum all the time
They never really got a bit of three decibels. I have another great Croatian invention. Maybe the best imagine ever
Nikola Tesla. Oh, he was Croatian who was born in Croatia and was possibly the most interesting man who's ever lived
He was fantastic. Some people thought he came from Venus to give us secrets. We didn't he came from Croatia
I stand corrected. Obviously that's ridiculous because only women are from Venus, right? Yeah, very true. Although he was called Nikola. I know
No one's ever drawn attention to this
He's but he develops alternating currently. He is responsible for he's supposedly invented a death range just before he died
Didn't he? He's been the seconds before he died
The idea was invent a death ray and that will stop all wars because no one will want to attack each other
Because everyone has a death ray. Yeah, he wasn't a practical man in many ways
He just was a genius. He was a da Vinci like once in a century mind
The main relationship in his life was with a pigeon. He was a very very strange man
Can you take that a bit further
Now, unfortunately there's some feathers in the museum of broken relationships
He there was a pigeon which came to his room every day. He lived out his last years in a hotel
Yeah, he said he loved her like like he you would love a woman, didn't he?
Yes, and we can only assume he was speaking metaphorically
We're quickly approaching full-time
So if anyone's got any final Croatia facts last one most popular ice cream flavor in Croatia last year
Facebook flavor
Invented by a guy called Admir Adeli whose teenage daughter asked him to create an ice cream flavor inspired by Facebook
And it became a huge hit. What flavor is Facebook flavor? It's blue and white. That's all I can tell you
Not a flavor
Well, so if you what when you when you look at do you so creepily see photos of people you used to get a universe you don't lick it you like it
Okay, that's the end of the match Brazil versus Croatia before we find out the scores and who won
Let's get the answers to that visit england.com quiz from our halftime show James starting with you
Yes, the thing that you can find on sylfdale golf course in Lancashire is englands rarest orchid the lady slipper orchid
And that's nowhere else. It's found nowhere else just where my wayward golf balls end up
Okay, question number two was Anna
Yep in 1949 big Ben was slowed down by five minutes when a flock of starlings landed on its minute hand
Really yep, wow, what an interesting fact
Andy question number three Robert Dunning it started in 1967 writing the authoritative history of Somerset
And he worked at it for 40 years and has had to retire with only nine of his outline 22 volumes finished
Wow, it's very impressive
As he handed it on to someone he's handed it on to another researcher. Okay. All right. Well there you go
There's the answers to the questions and now it's time to find out who has won the match and to make that decision
We're going to go to James. Okay, I think arbitrarily we are going to say the most quite interesting country of the two is
Brazil
I think those big raindrops have just about won it. I agree
Okay, there you go Brazil has won
So if you want to get in contact with any of us to dispute that or just ask us about any of the facts that we spoken about
You can reach us all on our Twitter handles. I'm on at Shriverland Andy at Andrew Hunter James at egg shapes and Anna
You can write at quickipedia or you can email podcast@ky.com. Okay, so
That's it for this episode, but we're going to be back again tomorrow with the next match of the world cup
And that will be Spain versus Netherlands. Spain versus Netherlands. Exciting. Okay. Hope you enjoyed the show guys and tune in again tomorrow. We'll see you then. Bye